---
layout: post
title: "Write"
date: 2013-06-06 17:26
comments: false
categories: [write]
---
>“There is nothing to writing. All you do is sit down at a typewriter and bleed.”  ― Ernest Hemingway

###Writing is thinking.

 Maybe that's why I struggle with it so much. I've never been satified with my writing-- I find that when I read many of my old essays or pieces, I'm immediately embarrassed. By the choppy prose, childish wordchoice, and the Comic Sans. Somewhere in my 12 year old mind, Comic Sans was cool.

But perhaps most embarrassing are the thoughts. Or more appropriately, the absense of thoughts and quality ideas. Behind ever poorly written sentence and paragraph is an equally empty notion or poorly expressed opinion.

###Writing is hard. 

Formulating a thesis, organizing arguments, finding the perfect voice that communicates "you." I've always wanted to voice the perfect "me"-- someone who is witty, infinitely more thoughtful, completely confident. I'm far from that level of proficiency. Writing, much like discussing personal topics with unfamiliar people, still feels unnatural and uncomfortable.

###Writing is rewarding.

Seeing good writing is experiencing a snapshot of clarity of thought. Though it can embarrassing to see how bad you once were, it is also immensely rewarding to see how far you've come.

I'm a firm believer in *doing* to learn and improve.  I hope to create *substantive* posts-- ones that will make reading this worth your time. 
###To be completely honest, I have no idea which direction this site will go

I hope to eventually cover a multitude of topics: tech, the arts, traveling, cooking, whatever.
But for now I'll just write.