---
layout: post
title: "Thoughts On Being Pretty Sick Abroad"
date: 2017-06-16
categories: [posts]
---
> The last 3 weeks has been one of the most intensely emotional times in my life. This is a reflection on just one aspect of this period (I think in time, I'll be able to write about the other things too). I've somewhat purposefully waited for some time to pass (about a week) so that I could write this with more perspective. But this is just me trying to figure out how I've felt in the last 21 days and how I feel at this moment.[^1]

It is a wonderful feeling to know that you are loved. On June 9, 2017 that was made abundantly clear to me as I arrived back on UCA's campus to the warm welcome of students, faculty, and staff. As I walked from the car towards the campus, people walked and ran up to me to give me hugs and to tell me how much they had missed me. "It felt like something was missing from campus." one student told me. I don't know what I've done to deserve such kindness.

It didn't feel like I had basically been away from students for a week and half. Yet time passed very strangely while I was gone. I suppose that because so many different things were happening-- I saw so many different doctors, had so many health tests done, and got many doses of  . Given my fear of

In the most rational, concise way, I can summarize what occurred like this:

    Some unidentified type of virus or enterovirus started to affect my body around May 27, 2017. In total, I had a fever that lasted for approximately 9 days, in addition to secondary psychological effects which suggest that I possibly also had encephalitis, the sudden inflammation of the brain.

    The more serious symptoms started to become apparent on the evening of May 31, when I became unable to sleep from paranoia and experienced very confused thinking. In a moment of clarity, I left my room and requested to see the UCA counselor, Robin, who placed me in an empty apartment and watched over me as I attempted to sleep. My mental state prevented me from getting any sleep that night and I started to think and say progressively more disturbing things. By morning, I was almost completely unable to control my thought and erratic behavior, which soon culminated into the inability to breathe properly and gasps for air. My colleagues quickly transported me to the local Aga Khan Health Services Diagnostic Center where I received IV, medication to reduce my fever, and a sedative to go to sleep.

    I was transported to Bishkek the following morning, June 1, accompanied by Robin. Our first appointment was with an American University of Central Asia (AUCA) psychologist and professor, Dr. Molchanova. She quickly hypothesized that the symptoms I experienced in the previous two days were completely secondary psychological effects. She believed that though I had experienced a actual psychotic episode, it was due to the fever caused by an infection (she thought it was intestinal).

    We were referred by Dr. Mochanova to Dr. Olga _(last name?)__ 

As one can see, it's not particularly concise.


Here are some additional details:

On Saturday, May 27, 2017, following an event what would later escalate into a very consequential series of events, I went to bed with a fever and chills[^4]. Earlier that afternoon, I had a headache and was pretty light sensitive but had thought nothing of it. The rest of the Saturday was rather busy (handling said event and writing an internal report that would later be "enshrined in the history of UCA"[^5])

The fever and chills continued on Sunday but I was still largely unconcerned. After all, I was a pretty healthy person and in good physical shape. I was going to the gym pretty consistently and finally hit a 2 plate front squat and 3 plate deadlift. The fever would occasionally recede and I'd feel pretty good for a few hours at a time before it came back.

 When i was still not better on Monday (May 29), i went to the campus nurse in order to make sure everything was ok. Because my fever was relatively high, she took me to the diagnostic center where i was prescribed a variety of antibiotics while told that I probably had the flu. The prescribed treatment (antibiotics) didn't seem to match the diagnosis (flu, which is a virus) so i did not take any of the antibiotics. I merely continued to take acetimenophen (paracetamol).






The Neomed staff got to know me very well. I've been told that I can look pretty clueless sometimes so I think that's what  Whenever Chynara called they would ask for my name and




---  
There are moments when we are reminded that we are not in control. There are things much bigger than us. Even things much, much smaller-- a virus -- a weird zombie entity, just DNA enclosed in a protein capsid[^2], brought me low and completely humbled me. I am indebted to the people who were around me.



This entire ordeal, reminded me that I am a very blessed person. I don't know what I've done to deserve the amount of kindness shown to me by everyone but I'm beyond grateful. I think that when one receives much, that person also has an obligation to give back. I do not want to forget the love given to me.

I'd like to believe that there are moments in our life that are given to us. How, though, do we know when a life experience is supposed to be life-altering? As a Protestant who went to church all the time while growing up, I remember watching a movie about Martin Luther and his near-death experience, which inspired him to devote his life toward becoming a monk. Did Martin Luther not choose to believe that his life had been spared for a reason as he laid in that field, with lightning striking all around him?[^3] How should one decide when a life experience is significant, let alone divinely-given?

It is telling though, that I've been thinking about what happened every single day.

There are also certain hard truths that I was faced with. Would the average Kyrgyz citizen been able to access all the healthcare resources I had? Concierge health services are not very common anywhere in the world.


Thank you. Thank you. Thank You.

[^1]: Will this feel melodramatic in a year? Maybe, but it didn't and doesn't now and I strongly feel as if I must remember this feeling. I know that we each create narratives to help us understand the experiences we've gone through and that with each passing day these narratives change, sometimes becoming more true to what happened with additional information and insight, and sometimes moving further from the truth, becoming more distorted in order to fit our current desires and thoughts.
[^2]: Not too long before this event, this NYT crossword clue frustrated me for two days as I tried to remember the word. I eventually got it though. Thank you, Ms. Affleck, for the AP Bio knowledge!
[^3]: In no way am i trying to say that this event was nearly as important as luther's. I merely use this example because as a person of faith, i think we make need to make decisions about what is from God everyday. and then perhaps the tougher question is:  given this experience, which may or may not be from God, what should or must i do?
[^4]: I guess someday I'll probably post about this.
[^5]: I really hope he's wrong, by the way. But I suppose we can't choose the way we are remembered. I'm now the "famous Jonathan Chang" to one upper level administrator.

Here is a feeble attempt to remember everyone who helped me, just in this event.

- Parvina and Sear, the students who found me outside my room and brought me to Robin.
- Dr. Elena Molchanova. I'm so glad that I saw you right as we were in Bishkek. It was such a relief to hear you talk. You're what a good health professional can be.
- Iskender, from the Bishkek central office
- My Russian-speaking nurse,  who came
- All of the Naryn staff. I don't deserve the love
- The

- And most importantly, the Naryn student life team, all whom I dearly love:
- Shabana, I'm sorry I worried you so much. Thank you for always giving and never expecting anything in return. You're my day one.
- Erik, my manager, who cared for me like a parent. I know I worried you tremendously. Sorry for the cut-off water bottle thing in the Diagnostic Center. What a year it's been.
- Robin, whom I must have scared so much. Thank you for accompanying me throughout the scariest time and for your patience and love.
- Chynara, for staying with me for 6(!) days. What a testament to your patience and goodness. Thank you for being a true friend:  always checking my temperature (and taking your temperature with me), helping me walk around, and ordering more than 20 pots of tea for me.

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All my love
