---
layout: post
title: "Learning Another's Language"
date: 2017-11-01
categories: [posts]
---
There's this unfortunate stereotype that Americans don't learn other languages when they travel abroad and even worse, insist on speaking English to everyone they encounter. It's thus also unfortunate that I happen to be a living example of at least part of said stereotype. I've never really insisted on speaking English but thinking back on my experiences traveling abroad (specifically in Europe) or while I was living in Kyrgyzstan, I was often much more comfortable just not really communicating at all or only using non-verbal forms of communication.

My modus operandum would usually be to 

I think I stated several times that I wouldn't be learning russian or kyrgyz because it wasn't relevant to me. factually, there was merIt to this statement as 1) the university really pushed for an english-only environment (so much so that originally there were entirely unenforcable rules basically constituting a constant language pledge). Though that loosened throughout the year, the fact remained that communication with studnets in English was a fundamental part of their curriculum. 2) I was already trying to learn so many other things about my new job. cultural learning (literally hadn't been in Central Asia before my final-round interview) and trying to understand the history and politics of the various countries that the students were from. And then student life curriculum 

that said, I do regret that 

but outside of my responsibilities, I think it would have greatly aided my capacity to have interacted with local people

learning someone else's language isn't about mere utility. it expresses respect and interest in a culture, as well as the desire to be more connected with others.

i've long believed that I wasn't particularly good at learning languages. I 

A few weeks ago there was the Boston 