---
layout: post
title: "The Gift"
date: 2017-03-17
categories: [posts]
---

There's a concept in the area of the history of science called "multiple discovery" which proposes that most scientific discoveries or inventions are made more or less independently, yet almost simultaneously. The most salient examples are probably calculus, which may have been codiscovered by Newton and Leibnizm, and natural selection, Darwin and Alfred Wallace.

I think that one of the appeals of Multiple discovery is that while it contrasts the notion of the lone discovery/or a heroic discovery, it still reinforces the ideals of the scientific process, that some objective truth is out there and obtainable by multiple sources. Multiple discovery is a validation of the human ability to obtain some semblance of objective reality.

WIthout elevating the personal details of my life to the same level as. My powers were particularly strong in college when even with a double shot of espresso i managed to knock out in the physics sessions after dinner. and I actually really wanted to stay awake for those... anyways.
My coworkers at UCA are in total agreement


I've been told I have The Gift. At least that's what Carleen and my coworkers here at UCA call it.

Rocking and shaking seem to put me right to sleep.

There are a couple mental cues that help tremendously when i want to go to sleep. There really kinda weird but i guess i've trained my body to respond well to them. One is closing my eyes and then really focusing on the feeling of my eyes, particularly as they kind of roll back, which creates a bit of pressure in at the center of my forehead. for some reason ,this really knocks me out quickly.

I also will sometimes visit a memory that has become strongly associated with sleep and relaxation for me over the past few years. i have one image in my mind that i always go to to prime my body for sleep and it almost has a 100 percent rate of success. it's a memory i have when i was about 12 years old and with my brother and two other boys (coincidentally they were also brothers and their last name was also Chang) and we're by a small creek in a shady wooded area. it smells of wet leaves and muddy ground. we're all just kneeling around the water and talking about this video game that they had which at the time i thought was the most fun thing ever, age of empires 2 which is a real time stragtegy game with a lot of units based on history. i remember vividly one of the words that was said -- janissarie the german monk/knights from the order of the knights templar. for some reason creeks, hiking, and janissaries put me right to sleep.


I'm a firm believer that when we are given talents, we are also obligated to cultivate them. As such, please don't be offended if we're ever traveling together and pass out while in mid-conversation. I'm merely
