---
layout: post
title: "Wifi Histories"
date: 2017-10-12
categories: [posts]
---

My computer stores all of the wifi hotspots that I've ever used from my phone or computer. These are the stories behind each of them.

## Boys-guest, Boys, HOME-4492

When my dad set up the Wifi at our house, he decided to call it Boys. While my brothers and I thought (and still think) it was a bit weird, there was some logic to it. Our house is 80% male and my mom sometimes complains that she's all alone as the only female in the house. After having me and my middle brother, I think she wanted a daughter but got Vincent instead and then stopped trying after that.

We recently got a new router though and now our Wifi is called  . Boys and Boys-guest is still there for some reason though.

## YaleSecure, YaleGuest, Yale wireless
YaleSecure was the go-to network during my time in university. It was fast and reliable-- usually. The few times it failed, there was total mayhem. I think once it was close to finals (might have been during our reading period) and I swear that's what everyone was talking about. It seemed like a good proportion of campus was running around trying to get internet at Starbucks and Blue State. For some though, it was Deus Ex Machina. No better excuse for emailing your TF from your phone explaining why your essay absolutely *had to be* turned in tomorrow, and preferably in the evening.

I recently went back to Yale as a post-grad (a frightening thought in some ways).

Yale wireless never worked.

## Seoul Wifi, iptime, Beans&Berries_Wi+
South Korea is incredibly connected, and you probably already knew that. Still, I was pretty shocked to see wifi coverage that bascially cover every square foot in the city, even inside the subways. Apparently you can purchase a plan from a provider, like iptime, that will basically work where you walk 

## Aena_Kubi

This is apparently the Barcelona airport's

TP-Link_A448_5G
HOME-4492
304ColonialTerrace
BrookingsGuest
Microtel Naples
YaleGuest
PANERA
Ramada
Holiday Inn Aeroport de Montreal
Days Inn Wifi
HI Express Bradley Airport
Oakwood 4E
Google Starbucks
F1
F1-5G
Golden Tulip
CoffeeBean_eWirelessFreeHotspot
loganwifi
Boingo Hotspot
Boys-guest
Turk Telecom Wifi
Urmat Ordo
royalbeach
UCA- Wifi
UCA- Guest
KHAN TENGRI 3
TP-Link_FFF2
Grand
bibikhanum1999988oza
TP-Link
Verizon_Guest
_LAX Free Wi-Fi
HOME-5633-2.4
80 Mt Hunger Wi-Fi network
RooM-1402
Classic-Hotel
DORMA
Dorm-A
Coffee Relax
Kamila
GREEN HOUSE HOSTEL
#SFO FREE WIFI
Bawksquad
Bawksquad-2.4G
Boys
Newmarkets-5GHz
Loews_Guest
chicken star
Potbelly Wifi
much-internet
GoogleGuest-Legacy
HSC_Guest
Public Wifi FREE
Alta Guest
event
SK_Airport-freezone_3
AEROFLOT_OnAir
AIRPORT FREE WIFI
Raikhan
MIT GUEST
PECTA_TIC
M1-FreeWifi
Columbia University
Beans&Berries_Wi+
Apple Store
Gangnam Wifi
SMART PARK
BigApple_4
MegaFon Free
GWconnect
AU-guest
SMART- Park
AirportWiFi
museumOPEN
Seoul Wifi
Fairfield_Guest
Aena_Kubi
Sierra
Urmat Ordo 3
FreeWiFiAirport-5
MANAS_FREE
BigApple_2
Telekom
Sheremetyevo Wi-Fi
MUSEUM_Wifi
TheHost
IstanbulModern-Guest
Apple Demo
MERCURY_917A82
SLExpress
DoNazarbayt_Hostel
Wyndham Garden hotel
Seoul WIfi
iptime
Chesterton 2.4
